# 100 Days of Code 2017  Recap

I completed the 100 Days of Code about a week ago. Most days I would spend more than an hour learning new things, some days only an hour. A couple of times, I forgot to write my log or tweet, but I always tried to do the work. My 100 days were not all in a row. I took a vacation with my family and missed a couple days. Other than that, I made an effort work on a project or do some course work every day. Let's disclose that I've written code for most of my life at this point. I have worked as a web developer for startups and try to be freelance consultant while being a stay at home dad. The 100 Days of Code showed up in one of my newsletters and I decided it would be my New Year's resolution. I figured it was a good way to help make sure my skills were current.

Technology keeps changing, especially in web development. LAMP is an acronym that describes what was  one of the original web stacks. Generally LAMP stands for (L)inux, (A)pache, (M)ySQL, and (P)HP. When I started web development, the P could also stand for Perl. Lately Nginx is popular option to replace Apache. Postgres has become a more mature option that can replace MySQL. Javascript has gone from a language in the browser to a being a server side language thanks to Node.js.

I've been trying to make an effort to learn more Javascript over the last year. It seems like every other day there's a new Javascript framework to work with. Angular is popular, but seems to be fading. React has been on the rise, though it needs some other libraries like Redux to fill out the feature set for web apps. It seems like Vue.js is the new hotness.

There are a couple web pages I should have bookmarked. Though I  find myself always typing in the following search queries. "MDN Javascript Array" and "MDN Javascript String". Definitely the former more so than the later. There are some very useful function on those prototypes. The challenges for Javascript on freeCodeCamp's website will help you master them. If you are writing a for loop to iterate over an array, then look for a helper function that do what you need.

The good and the bad about freeCodeCamp. The Front End Development Certification is pretty solid and worth the time. The Data Visualization is lacking the challenges to help you learn how to do the projects. I ended up at Codecademy to get the basics on React. For the Back End Development, I lost momentum when I got to the projects. I felt I needed to learn D3.js to help complete the projects. I found freeCodeCamp's forums to be helpful. Sometimes searches would give results that pointed me in the right direction. A couple of time, I made a post and got a helpful response. I'm not a fan of Gitter, I don't find it to be helpful to my way of learning. The thought of getting an instant response is nice. Unfortunately there are so many others trying to get a response that you get lost in the noise. Despite my criticisms, freeCodeCamp is a great resource to help you learn coding.

So I'm done with the 100 Days of Code, but there is always more things to learn. A couple of things on my list for this year are: D3.js, WordPress, WooCommerce and Vue.js. I also want to complete some of freeCodeCamp's other certifications
